###	ICD Use in health information systems

Health information systems include a range of different components for collection, analysis, 
and use of the data. Information sources could for example be population-based, health facility-
based, or focused on particular diseases. The main population-based sources of health 
information are census data, household surveys, and vital registration systems.

Health facility-related data sources include public health surveillance, health services data (that 
may be referred to as health management information systems or routine health information 
systems), and health system monitoring data (e.g. human resources, health infrastructure, 
financing).

National health accounts are designed to provide a comprehensive picture of health financing. 
Coding enables the recording of health information in a language independent way. 
Standardization of coding enables both intra- and international data comparison. For example, 
ICD coded data can be compared across different sectors of the health system – if the same 
coding rules are applied.

Health information systems are increasingly based on digital (electronic) reporting and coding. 
ICD–11 is designed to be used in such environments. In many places information collection is 
based on paper reporting in a traditional analogue way. ICD–11 can be produced in a printed 
version for use in paper based systems.

####	Use of ICD–11 in a digital setting and web services

The ICD-11 is used for coding of diagnoses, in electronic health records or electronic death 
certificates, or in other places. Special tools facilitate finding specific ICD-11 codes for any of the 
several dimensions that define an ICD-11 entity or category. Additional detail can be added 
using multiple codes for one condition. Retaining the unique identifier of the coded ICD-11 
entity allows the same information to be reused across different translations. WHO has 
developed the ICD web services (https://icd.who.int/icdapi); designed to support 
interoperable machine-to-machine interaction.

####	Use of ICD–11 in an analog paper-based setting

The ICD-11 is used as analogue printed version in some countries. Information is reported on 
paper version and then coded with the ICD-11. It should be noted that paper-based recording requires manual transcription of the information into 
electronic systems and should be substituted by electronic reporting as early as possible in the 
information chain. Further problems with paper-based recording include readability and 
timeliness. ICD-11 supports many ways of computer assisted coding including sanctioning of 
code combinations and other possible plausibility checks. The long term goal for all users 
should be coding of ICD-11 in an electronic environment.

In the print version, the information is divided into 3 volumes, the tabular list, the reference 
guide, and the index. All three are needed to use the ICD correctly.

#### Electronic version

In the browser version of the ICD, most information is interlinked and visible in the relevant context. The WHO provides this version for browsing ICD-11 in multiple languages (linked from [https://icd.who.int](https://icd.who.int)). This tool allows the user to retrieve concepts by searching terms, anatomy or any other element of the content model. With this browser, users can also contribute to the updating and continuous improvement of ICD with comments and solutions. Such input is reviewed for consideration for inclusion on an annual basis.

ICD–11 can also be accessed using web services with user specific software. The IT guide to the ICD provides more details on compatibility requirements: [https://icd.who.int/icdapi](https://icd.who.int/icdapi). Both the web services and the online browser allow access to all Tabular lists of the ICD, for mortality and morbidity statistics, primary care, or for a specialty linearization for certain specialized domains.
