
###	Applicability and Intellectual Property

The following paragraph provides an overview of the legal regulations in relation to ICD.  It is understood that this text does not prejudge in any way the wording of the legal arrangements that are made between WHO and the relevant parties.

The ICD is intellectual property of WHO and changes to the ICD are subject to contractual arrangements and approval through the updating mechanism. 

ICD is distributed free of charge.

Users may access and use the ICD from the Internet for personal use. Users will register and agree to the end user license agreement prior to accessing ICD files for download.   

Web services for ICD coding and browsing are available subject relevant agreements.

The ICD may be translated into any language. For translation, interested parties (the Translator) are requested to contact the WHO and comply with the relevant regulations in a contract. 
The Translator will use the WHO translation platform, thus allowing the WHO to verify correctness and completeness of the translation. 
The translations of WHO official languages are a product of WHO and all rights are vested with WHO. 
Translations of other languages are a product of the Translator. 
WHO is automatically granted a perpetual and irrevocable, non-exclusive, world-wide, royalty-free, sub-licensable right to use, change, adapt, 
translate, publish, and disseminate such work product in any manner and in any format in conjunction with the work of WHO. 
Any adaptation, translation, publication (including in scientific journals), and dissemination to be made by either party will be coordinated between them.  

In some instances, users may feel the need to change parts of the ICD in order to produce a special version of ICD. 
Production of special versions require a dedicated contractual arrangement with WHO.  
Such versions will be produced from the WHO production platform by WHO. 
All changes to ICD must be submitted on the WHO-ICD maintenance platform (for details see Section [(N!1.6.1) (T!ICD–11 Update Process)](#icd11-update-process).  
Requests for production of a special version will be subject to requests for funding of the related work. 

For international reporting, the most up to date version of the ICD is used, as stipulated in the Nomenclature Regulations (1967). 

No publicity may be displayed in the coding or browsing pages. In case of embedding in a local website, or running a local version, a link to the ICD homepage at the WHO must be included. 
No publicity may be displayed in the ICD print versions. 

Ideally users will access the ICD online or through the web services. This will ensure proper joint use of index, content model, and tabular lists and facilitate dissemination of updates, 
where applicable. Any coding mechanism produced by 3rd parties must provide the same coding results as the reference online coding tool.  
